Initial implementation review (#1)
kinland/cypress-selector-shorthand: README.md

# cypress-selector-generator

> Tired of the boilerplate needed for writing unambiguous selectors for Cypress UI tests? Use `cypress-selector-generator` to create navigation shorthands!

Author: This line & the first line have the wrong package name

Reviewer: For artistic flow - I think you also need another beat.
```suggestion
Are ambiguous Cypress UI test selectors driving you batty? Does the thought of writing boilerplate needed for writing *un*ambiguous selectors for your tests leave you exhausted?  Then get equipped with `cypress-selector-shorthand` and start creating navigation shorthands with absolute ease!
```

Only thing better would be a GIF montage of SDETs flailing on a keyboard with informercial levels of competence.

Author: Presumably you're being facetious?

Reviewer: I mean, only if you think you can't make the GIF montage happen.
Consider it an artistic flow suggestion more than anything else. :smile:

With this plugin, the following examples have full IntelliSense, and you can chain arbitrary Cypress commands off of your app selectors:
```js
myApp.appInfo.createNewUserSection.firstNameInput
    .type('First');
myApp.appInfo.createNewUserSection.lastNameInput
    .type('Last');
myApp.appInfo.createNewUserSection.submitButton
    .click();
```
```js
myApp.appInfo.createNewUserSection
    .within(({ firstNameInput, lastNameInput, submitButton }) => {
        firstNameInput
            .type('First');
        lastNameInput
            .type('Last');
        submitButton
            .click();
    });
```

> The above snippets equivalent to the following raw Cypress:

Reviewer: * The above snippets are equivalent to ...

> The above snippets equivalent to the following raw Cypress:

Reviewer: * The above snippets are equivalent to ...

```js
cy.get('[data-test=app_info] [data-test=create_new_user_section] [data-test=first_name_input]')
    .type('First');
cy.get('[data-test=app_info] [data-test=create_new_user_section] [data-test=last_name_input]')
    .type('Last');
cy.get('[data-test=app_info] [data-test=create_new_user_section] [data-test=submit_button]')
    .click();
```
```js
cy.get('[data-test=app_info] [data-test=create_new_user_section]')
    .within(() => {
        cy.get('[data-test=first_name_input]')
            .type('First');
        cy.get('[data-test=last_name_input]')
            .type('Last');
        cy.get('[data-test=submit_button]')
            .click();
    });
```

> Or, if you would prefer sticking closer to normal Cypress syntax, there's a new `cy.tget` command. It works the same way as the built-in `cy.get`, but automatically wraps non-css/jQuery identifiers with `[data-test]`.

Reviewer: Stylistically - would suggest dropping the Or that starts the sentence.

If your package is providing `cy.tget` - I would suggest making that clear with:
"this library provides the new `cy.tget` command."

For example: 
```js
cy.tget('app_info:visible create_new_user_section submit_button');
```
will be converted automatically into 
```js
cy.get('[data-test=app_info]:visible [data-test=create_new_user_section] [data-test=submit_button]');
```

## Installation
```bash
pnpm add -D cypress-selector-shorthand
# or
npm i -D cypress-selector-shorthandgenerator
# or
yarn add -D cypress-selector-shorthand
```

Add this line to your project's `cypress/support/commands.js` (or `commands.ts`):
```js
import 'cypress-selector-shorthand/install';
```

## Configuration
To make use of the navigation shorthands, there's three extra steps you need to do to generate the objects and interfaces. (Note: you can use `cy.tget()` without this.)

> First, you need to create a schema JSON file, e.g. the following might be used for the example at the top of this file:

Reviewer: Would a typical Cypress dev know where to place the schema file?

Author: Location can be anywhere, since it is specified by `--infile` and has no default

```json
{
    "app_info": {
        "create_new_user_section": {
            "name_input": null,
            "address_input": null,
            "submit_button": null
        },
        "existing_users_table": {
            "rows" : {
                "row": {
                    "firstName": null,
                    "lastName": null
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Once you have your schema, you need to generate interfaces for IntelliSense:

```bash
npx cypress-selector-shorthand interfaces --appName 'MyApp' --infile './schema.json' --outfile './src/schema.ts`
```

> This will create a bunch of interfaces from your schema file (using the `quicktype` library):

Reviewer: Nit: Roughly how many is a bunch?

Reviewer: Also, presumably the schemas will be automatically placed in the correct location for use by `npx`?

Author: the `--outfile` is so that you can place it in your desired location; there isn't a default.

```typescript
export interface MyApp {
    appInfo: Cypress.ChainableLike<JQuery<HTMLElement>, AppInfo>;
}

export interface AppInfo {
    createNewUserSection: Cypress.ChainableLike<JQuery<HTMLElement>, CreateNewUserSection>;
    existingUsersTable:   Cypress.ChainableLike<JQuery<HTMLElement>, ExistingUsersTable>;
}

export interface CreateNewUserSection {
    nameInput:    Cypress.Chainable<JQuery<HTMLElement>>
    addressInput: Cypress.Chainable<JQuery<HTMLElement>>
    submitButton: Cypress.Chainable<JQuery<HTMLElement>>
}

export interface ExistingUsersTable {
    rows: Cypress.ChainableLike<JQuery<HTMLElement>, Rows>;
}

export interface Rows {
    row:  Cypress.ChainableLike<JQuery<HTMLElement>, Row>;
    with: With;
}

export interface Row {
    firstName: Cypress.Chainable<JQuery<HTMLElement>>
    lastName:  Cypress.Chainable<JQuery<HTMLElement>>
}

export interface With {
    firstName: (text: string) => Cypress.ChainableLike<JQuery<HTMLElement>, Row>;
    lastName:  (text: string) => Cypress.ChainableLike<JQuery<HTMLElement>, Row>;
}
```

You might notice this generated a `with` field that didn't exist in the schema. More on that under the Usage section.

> Finally, you need to generate your navigation object:

Reviewer: where should this code be placed in order for users to take advantage of the navigation object?

Author: location doesn't matter, but you need to import it. To reply to several of your questions at once:
If you run
`npx cypress-selector-shorthand interfaces --appName 'MyApp' --infile './myAppSchema.json' --outfile './src/myAppInterface.ts'`

then your schema file must be in `./myAppSchema.json` relative to your project directory, and you have to import `./src/myAppInterface.ts` when you create your `./src/myApp.ts` file.

When I update the PR, I have revised the README and hopefully that will provide some clarity

```

## Installation
```bash
pnpm add -D cypress-selector-shorthand
# or
npm i -D cypress-selector-shorthand
# or
yarn add -D cypress-selector-shorthand
```

Add the appropriate import to your project's `cypress/support/commands.js` (or `commands.ts`):
```ts
require('cypress-selector-shorthand/install');
```
```ts
import 'cypress-selector-shorthand/install';
```

## Configuration
To make use of the navigation shorthands, there's three extra steps you need to do to generate the objects and interfaces. (Note: you can use `cy.tget()` without this.)

First, you need to create a schema JSON file, e.g. the following might be used for the example at the top of this file:

`./myAppSchema.json`
```json
{
    "app_info": {
        "create_new_user_section": {
            "name_input": null,
            "address_input": null,
            "submit_button": null
        },
        "existing_users_table": {
            "rows" : {
                "row": {
                    "firstName": null,
                    "lastName": null
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Once you have your schema, you need to generate interfaces for IntelliSense:

```bash

> npx cypress-selector-shorthand interfaces --appName 'MyApp' --infile './myAppSchema.json' --outfile './src/myAppInterface.ts'`

Author: ```suggestion
npx cypress-selector-shorthand interfaces --appName 'MyApp' --schema './myAppSchema.json' --outfile './src/myAppInterface.ts'`
```

also rename "input" parameter to "schema" and "out-file" parameter to "outfile"
